README.adoc, before:

= https://t.me/ImgMacroBot[ImgMacroBot]

Telegram inline bot who helps you generate your favourite image macros on the fly.

== Usage

ImgMacroBot is an https://core.telegram.org/bots/inline[inline bot].
It means that it is triggered by a mention in any chat.
To generate an image macro you should type a query, like `@ImgMacroBot <query>`.
For the list of supported queries read <<supported_image_macros, Supported image macros>>.

[#supported_image_macros]
== Supported image macros

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/emperor-palpatine-ironic[**Ironic Palpatine**]::
Triggered by a phrase containing "ironic" substring.
+
image::./demos/ironic palpatine.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/emperor-palpatine-ironic[**Ironic Palpatine (ru)**]::
Triggered by a phrase containing "иронично" substring.
+
image::./demos/ironic palpatine ru.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/let-the-hate-flow-through-you[**Good Palpatine**]::
Triggered by a phrase containing "good" substring (more "o"s allowed).
+
image::./demos/good good.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/let-the-hate-flow-through-you[**Good Palpatine (ru)**]::
Triggered by a phrase containing "хорошо" substring (more "о"s allowed).
+
image::./demos/good good ru.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/matrix-morpheus[**Matrix Morpheus**]::
Triggered by a pattern "What if I told you <what>" or by macro id: "morpheus: <what>"
+
image::./demos/matrix morpheus.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/matrix-morpheus[**Matrix Morpheus (ru)**]::
Triggered by a pattern "Что если я скажу тебе <что-то>" or by macro id: "Морфеус: <что-то>"
+
image::./demos/matrix morpheus ru.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/im-something-of-a-scientist-myself[**I'm something of a scientist myself**]::
Triggered by a pattern "I'm something of a <who> myself" or by macro id: "scientist: <who>"
+
image::./demos/i'm something of a scientist myself.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/im-something-of-a-scientist-myself[**I'm something of a scientist myself (ru)**]::
Triggered by a pattern "Я и сам своего рода <кто-то>" or by macro id: "учёный: <кто-то>"
+
image::./demos/i'm something of a scientist myself ru.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/one-does-not-simply-walk-into-mordor[**One does not simply walk into Mordor**]::
Triggered by a pattern "One does not simply <do something>" or by macro id: "Boromir: <do something>"
+
image::./demos/one does not simply walk into mordor.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/one-does-not-simply-walk-into-mordor[**One does not simply walk into Mordor (ru)**]::
Triggered by a pattern "Нельзя просто так взять и <сделать что-то>" or by macro id: "Боромир: <сделать что-то>"
+
image::./demos/one does not simply walk into mordor ru.jpeg[]

https://memepedia.ru/malchik-ty-ne-ponyal-vodochki-nam-prinesi-my-domoj-letim/[**Водочки нам принеси!**]::
Triggered by a macro ID "водочки" accepting 2 arguments separated with commas: top and bottom text
+
--
Like: "водочки: Водочки нам принеси, мы домой летим".
If you've seen "Брат 2", you got the idea, if you haven't — just pass by.

image::./demos/vodochki.jpeg[]

Another way to use this macro is by a phrase matching pattern "<текст> принеси, <нижняя строка>".
As you see, the key here is "принеси" word, and the bot will do its best to match top and bottom parts.
If it fails — try using it by macro ID.

Here is an example of calling "@ImgMacroBot девочка, спиртику нам принеси, мы ручки дезинфицировать будем":

image::./demos/vodochki phrase.jpeg[]
--

== Running locally

. Define the required environment variables in `.env` file in the root of the project.
The variables are:
`TELEGRAM_TOKEN`::
https://core.telegram.org/bots/api[Telegram Bot API] token.
`TEMPLATES_DIR`::
Absolute path to the link:templates[`templates`] directory of this project.
`FONTS_DIR`::
Absolute path to the link:fonts[`fonts`] directory of this project.
`IMGUR_CLIENT_ID`::
https://apidocs.imgur.com[Imgur API] client ID.
`DB_TNSNAME`::
This bot is intended to be deployed into https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free[Oracle's Always Free] Compute VM and use Oracle's Always Free ATP database.
This variable designates the TNS name for the database used to cache Imgur links.
`DB_TNSADMIN`::
This bot is intended to be deployed into https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free[Oracle's Always Free] Compute VM and use Oracle's Always Free ATP database.
ATP connection are made https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/getting-started-using-jdbc.html[using wallets].
This variable points to a wallet directory.
`DB_USER`::
This bot is intended to be deployed into https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free[Oracle's Always Free] Compute VM and use Oracle's Always Free ATP database.
This variable is for ATP user.
`DB_PASSWORD`::
This bot is intended to be deployed into https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free[Oracle's Always Free] Compute VM and use Oracle's Always Free ATP database.
This variable is for ATP user's password.
`IMGMACROBOT_LOG_THRESHOLD`::
Optional.
Logging threshold: logs with levels below given won't be logged.
`DEBUG` is a good value for development, `INFO` is used in production.
`PORT`::
Optional.
Port to bind to.
If no value given, `5000` will be used.

. Start https://ngrok.com[`ngrok`] with the given port, like:
+
[source,bash]
----
ngrok http 5000
----

. Configure Telegram Bot API webhook with ngrok:
+
[source,bash]
----
curl --location --request POST 'https://api.telegram.org/bot${TELEGRAM_TOKEN}/setWebhook' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
	"url": "https://${NGROK}.ngrok.io/${TELEGRAM_TOKEN}"
}
'
----
+
Don't forget to replace the placeholders.

. Start the bot:
+
[source,bash]
----
source .env && ./gradlew :runner:ktor:run
----

. The bot is running!

Commit message:

Fix #39: Shut Up And Take My Money!

README.adoc, after:

= https://t.me/ImgMacroBot[ImgMacroBot]

Telegram inline bot who helps you generate your favourite image macros on the fly.

== Usage

ImgMacroBot is an https://core.telegram.org/bots/inline[inline bot].
It means that it is triggered by a mention in any chat.
To generate an image macro you should type a query, like `@ImgMacroBot <query>`.
For the list of supported queries read <<supported_image_macros, Supported image macros>>.

[#supported_image_macros]
== Supported image macros

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/emperor-palpatine-ironic[**Ironic Palpatine**]::
Triggered by a phrase containing "ironic" substring.
+
image::./demos/ironic palpatine.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/emperor-palpatine-ironic[**Ironic Palpatine (ru)**]::
Triggered by a phrase containing "иронично" substring.
+
image::./demos/ironic palpatine ru.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/let-the-hate-flow-through-you[**Good Palpatine**]::
Triggered by a phrase containing "good" substring (more "o"s allowed).
+
image::./demos/good good.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/let-the-hate-flow-through-you[**Good Palpatine (ru)**]::
Triggered by a phrase containing "хорошо" substring (more "о"s allowed).
+
image::./demos/good good ru.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/matrix-morpheus[**Matrix Morpheus**]::
Triggered by a pattern "What if I told you <what>" or by macro id: "morpheus: <what>"
+
image::./demos/matrix morpheus.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/matrix-morpheus[**Matrix Morpheus (ru)**]::
Triggered by a pattern "Что если я скажу тебе <что-то>" or by macro id: "Морфеус: <что-то>"
+
image::./demos/matrix morpheus ru.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/im-something-of-a-scientist-myself[**I'm something of a scientist myself**]::
Triggered by a pattern "I'm something of a <who> myself" or by macro id: "scientist: <who>"
+
image::./demos/i'm something of a scientist myself.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/im-something-of-a-scientist-myself[**I'm something of a scientist myself (ru)**]::
Triggered by a pattern "Я и сам своего рода <кто-то>" or by macro id: "учёный: <кто-то>"
+
image::./demos/i'm something of a scientist myself ru.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/one-does-not-simply-walk-into-mordor[**One does not simply walk into Mordor**]::
Triggered by a pattern "One does not simply <do something>" or by macro id: "Boromir: <do something>"
+
image::./demos/one does not simply walk into mordor.jpeg[]

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/one-does-not-simply-walk-into-mordor[**One does not simply walk into Mordor (ru)**]::
Triggered by a pattern "Нельзя просто так взять и <сделать что-то>" or by macro id: "Боромир: <сделать что-то>"
+
image::./demos/one does not simply walk into mordor ru.jpeg[]

https://memepedia.ru/malchik-ty-ne-ponyal-vodochki-nam-prinesi-my-domoj-letim/[**Водочки нам принеси!**]::
Triggered by a macro ID "водочки" accepting 2 arguments separated with commas: top and bottom text
+
--
Like: "водочки: Водочки нам принеси, мы домой летим".
If you've seen "Брат 2", you got the idea, if you haven't — just pass by.

image::./demos/vodochki.jpeg[]

Another way to use this macro is by a phrase matching pattern "<текст> принеси, <нижняя строка>".
As you see, the key here is "принеси" word, and the bot will do its best to match top and bottom parts.
If it fails — try using it by macro ID.

Here is an example of calling "@ImgMacroBot девочка, спиртику нам принеси, мы ручки дезинфицировать будем":

image::./demos/vodochki phrase.jpeg[]
--

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/shut-up-and-take-my-money[**Shut Up And Take My Money!**]::
Triggered by a pattern "shut up and take <something>" or by macro id: "take my money: <top text>, <bottom text>"
+
image::./demos/take my money.jpeg[]

== Running locally

. Define the required environment variables in `.env` file in the root of the project.
The variables are:
`TELEGRAM_TOKEN`::
https://core.telegram.org/bots/api[Telegram Bot API] token.
`TEMPLATES_DIR`::
Absolute path to the link:templates[`templates`] directory of this project.
`FONTS_DIR`::
Absolute path to the link:fonts[`fonts`] directory of this project.
`IMGUR_CLIENT_ID`::
https://apidocs.imgur.com[Imgur API] client ID.
`DB_TNSNAME`::
This bot is intended to be deployed into https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free[Oracle's Always Free] Compute VM and use Oracle's Always Free ATP database.
This variable designates the TNS name for the database used to cache Imgur links.
`DB_TNSADMIN`::
This bot is intended to be deployed into https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free[Oracle's Always Free] Compute VM and use Oracle's Always Free ATP database.
ATP connection are made https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/getting-started-using-jdbc.html[using wallets].
This variable points to a wallet directory.
`DB_USER`::
This bot is intended to be deployed into https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free[Oracle's Always Free] Compute VM and use Oracle's Always Free ATP database.
This variable is for ATP user.
`DB_PASSWORD`::
This bot is intended to be deployed into https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free[Oracle's Always Free] Compute VM and use Oracle's Always Free ATP database.
This variable is for ATP user's password.
`IMGMACROBOT_LOG_THRESHOLD`::
Optional.
Logging threshold: logs with levels below given won't be logged.
`DEBUG` is a good value for development, `INFO` is used in production.
`PORT`::
Optional.
Port to bind to.
If no value given, `5000` will be used.

. Start https://ngrok.com[`ngrok`] with the given port, like:
+
[source,bash]
----
ngrok http 5000
----

. Configure Telegram Bot API webhook with ngrok:
+
[source,bash]
----
curl --location --request POST 'https://api.telegram.org/bot${TELEGRAM_TOKEN}/setWebhook' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
	"url": "https://${NGROK}.ngrok.io/${TELEGRAM_TOKEN}"
}
'
----
+
Don't forget to replace the placeholders.

. Start the bot:
+
[source,bash]
----
source .env && ./gradlew :runner:ktor:run
----

. The bot is running!
